= Overview

For instructions on upgrading to newer versions, visit {mongoid.org}[http://mongoid.org/docs/upgrading.html].

== 2.1.7

This was a specific release to fix MRI 1.8.7 breakages introduced by 2.1.6.

== 2.1.6

=== Resolved Issues

* #1126 Fix setting of relations with other relation proxies.

* #1122 Hash and array fields now properly flag as dirty on access and change.

* #656 Fixed reload breaking relations on unsetting of already loaded
  associations.

* #647 Prefer #unset to #remove_attribute for removing values.

* #290 Verify pushes into deeply embedded documents.

== 2.1.5

=== Resolved Issues

* #1116 Embedded children retain reference to parent in destroy callbacks.

* #1110, #1115 Don't memoize metadata related helpers on documents.

* #1112 db:create_indexes no longer indexes subclasses multiple times.

* #1111, #1098 Don't set _id in $set operations.

* #1007 Update attribute properly tracks array changes.

== 2.1.4

This was a specific release to get a Psych generated gemspec so no more parse
errors would occur on those rubies that were using the new YAML parser.

== 2.1.3

=== Resolved Issues

* #1109 Fixed validations not loading one to ones into memory.

* #1107 Mongoid no longer wants required mongoid/railtie in application.rb

* #1102 Fixed nested attributes deletion.

* #1097 Reload now runs after_initialize callbacks.

* #1079 Embeds many no longer duplicates documents.

* #1078 Fixed array criteria matching on embedded documents.

* #1028 Implement scoped on one-to-many and many-to-many relations.

* #988 Many-to-many clear no longer deletes the child documents.

* #977 Autosaving relations works also through nested attributes.

* #972 Recursive embedding now handles namespacing on generated names.

* #943 Don't override Document#attributes.

* #893 Verify count is not caching on many to many relations.

* #815 Verify after_initialize is run in the correct place.

* #793 Verify any_of scopes chain properly with any other scope.

* #776 Fixed mongoid case quality when dealing with subclasses.

* #747 Fixed complex criteria using its keys to render its string value.

* #721 safely now properly raises validation errors when they occur.

== 2.1.2

=== Resolved Issues

* #1082 Alias size and length to count on criteria. (Adam Greene)

* #1044 When multiple relations are defined for the same class, always return
  the default inverse first if inverse_of is not defined.

* #710 Nested attributes accept both id and _id in hashes or arrays.

* #1047 Ignore nil values passed to embeds_man pushes and substitution.
  (Derick Bailey)

== 2.1.1

=== Resolved Issues

* #1021, #719 Many to many relations dont trigger extra database queries when
  pushing new documents.

* #607 Calling create on large associations does not load the entire relation.

* #1064 Mongoid::Paranoia should respect unscoped and scoped.

* #1026 model#update_attribute now can update booleans to false.

* #618 Crack XML library breaks Mongoid by adding #attributes method to the
  String class. (Stephen McGinty)

== 2.1.0

=== Major Changes

* Mongoid now requires MongoDB 1.8.x in order to properly support the #bit and
  #rename atomic operations.

* Traditional slave support has been removed from Mongoid.
  Replica sets should be used in place of traditional master and slave setups.

* Custom field serialization has changed. Please see
  {serializable}[https://github.com/mongoid/mongoid/blob/master/lib/mongoid/fields/serializable.rb]
  for changes.

* The dirty attribute tracking has been switched to use ActiveModel, this brings many bug fixes and changes:
  * #756 After callbacks and observers see what was changed instead of changes just made being in previous_changes
  * #434 Documents now are flagged as dirty when brand new or the state on instantiation differs from the database state. This is consistent with ActiveRecord.
  * #323 Mongoid now supports [field]_will_change! from ActiveModel::Dirty

* Mongoid model preloading in development mode now defaults to false.

* :autosave => true on relational associations now saves on update as well as
  create.

* Mongoid now has an identity map for simple find by id queries. See the
  website for documentation.

=== New Features

* #1067 Fields now accept a :versioned attribute to be able to disable what
  fields are versioned with Mongoid::Versioning. (Jim Benton)

* #587 Added order preference to many and many to many associations (Gregory Man)

* Added ability to chain order_by statements (Gregory Man)

* #961 Allow arbitrary Mongo::Connection options to pass through Mongoid::Config::Database object. (Morgan Nelson)

* Enable autosave for many to many references. (Dave Krupinski)

* The following explicit atomic operations have been added: Model#bit,
  Model#pop, Model#pull, Model#push_all, Model#rename, Model#unset.

* Added exception translations for Hindi. (Sukeerthi Adiga)

=== Resolved Issues

* #974 Fix attribute_present? to work correctly then attribute value is false, thanks to @nickhoffman (Gregory Man)

* #960 create indexes rake task is not recognizing a lot of mongoid models because it has problems guessing their model names from filenames (Tobias Schlottke)

* #874 Deleting from a M-M reference is one-sided (nickhoffman, davekrupinski)

* Replace deprecated class_inheritable_hash dropped in Rails 3.1+ (Konstantin Shabanov)

* Fix inconsistent state when replacing an entire many to many relation

* Don't clobber inheritable attributes when adding subclass field inheritance (Dave Krupinski)

* #914 Querying embedded documents with '$or' selector (Max Golovnia)

* #514 Fix marshaling of documents with relation extensions (Chris Griego)

  Metadata#extension now returns a Module, instead of a Proc, when an extension is defined.

* #837 When allow_dynamic_fields is set to false and loading an embedded document with an unrecognized field, an exception is raised.

* #963 Initializing array of embedded documents via hash regressed (Chris Griego, Morgan Nelson)

* Mongoid::Config.reset resets the options to their default values.

* Mongoid::Fields.defaults is memoized for faster instantiation of models.
